Mycodo is an automated monitoring and regulation system that was built to run on the [Raspberry Pi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raspberry_Pi).

Originally developed for cultivating edible mushrooms, Mycodo has grown to do much more. The system is comprised of two parts: a backend (daemon) and a frontend (web server). The backend performs tasks such as acquiring measurements from sensors and devices and coordinating a diverse set of responses to those measurements, including the ability to modulate outputs (switch relays, generate PWM signals, operate pumps, switch wireless outlets, publish/subscribe to MQTT, among others), regulate environmental conditions with PID control, schedule timers, capture photos and stream video, trigger actions when measurements meet certain conditions, and more. The frontend hosts a web interface that enables viewing and configuration from any browser-enabled device.

There are a number of different uses for Mycodo. Some users simply store sensor measurements to monitor conditions remotely, others regulate the environmental conditions of a physical space, while others capture motion-activated or time-lapse photography, among other uses.

Input controllers acquire measurements and store them in the InfluxDB [time series database](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_series_database). Measurements typically come from sensors, but may also be configured to use the return value of linux or Python commands, or math equations, making a very powerful system for acquiring and generating data.

Output controllers produce changes to the general input/output (GPIO) pins or may be configured to execute linux or Python commands, enabling a large number of potential uses. There are a few different types of outputs: simple switching of GPIO pins (HIGH/LOW), generating pulse-width modulated (PWM) signals, switching 315/433 MHz wireless outlets, controlling Atlas Scientific peristaltic pumps, as well as executing linux and Python commands. The most common output is using a relay to switch electrical devices on and off.

When Inputs and Outputs are combined, PID controllers may be used to create a feedback loop that uses the Output device to modulate an environmental condition the Input measures. Certain Inputs may be coupled with certain Outputs to create a variety of different control and regulation applications. Beyond simple regulation, Methods may be used to create a changing setpoint over time, enabling such things as thermal cyclers, reflow ovens, environmental simulation for terrariums, food and beverage fermentation or curing, and cooking food ([sous-vide](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sous-vide)), to name a few.

Triggers can be set to activate events based on specific dates and times, according to durations of time, or the sunrise/sunset at a specific latitude and longitude. Conditionals are used to activates certain events based on the truth of custom user conditional statements (e.g. "Sensor1 > 23 and 10 < Sensor2 < 30").