Mycodo is an open-source environmental monitoring and regulation system that was built to run on single-board computers, specifically the [Raspberry Pi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raspberry_Pi).

Originally developed for cultivating edible mushrooms, Mycodo has grown to do much more. The system consists of two parts, a backend (daemon) and a frontend (web server). The backend performs tasks such as acquiring measurements from sensors and devices and coordinating a diverse set of responses to those measurements, including the ability to modulate outputs (switch relays, generate PWM signals, operate pumps, switch wireless outlets, publish/subscribe to MQTT, among others), regulate environmental conditions with PID control, schedule timers, capture photos and stream video, trigger actions when measurements meet certain conditions, and more. The frontend hosts a web interface that enables viewing and configuration from any browser-enabled device.

There are a number of different uses for Mycodo. Some users simply store sensor measurements to monitor conditions remotely, others regulate the environmental conditions of a physical space, while others capture motion-activated or time-lapse photography, among other uses.

Input controllers acquire measurements and store them in the InfluxDB time series database. Measurements typically come from sensors, but may also be configured to use the return value of Linux Bash or Python commands, or math equations, making this a very dynamic system for acquiring and generating data.

Output controllers produce changes to the general input/output (GPIO) pins or may be configured to execute Linux Bash or Python commands, enabling a variety of potential uses. There are a few different types of outputs: simple switching of GPIO pins (HIGH/LOW), generating pulse-width modulated (PWM) signals, controlling peristaltic pumps, MQTT publishing, and more.

When Inputs and Outputs are combined, Function controllers may be used to create feedback loops that uses the Output device to modulate an environmental condition the Input measures. Certain Inputs may be coupled with certain Outputs to create a variety of different control and regulation applications. Beyond simple regulation, Methods may be used to create a changing setpoint over time, enabling such things as thermal cyclers, reflow ovens, environmental simulation for terrariums, food and beverage fermentation or curing, and cooking food ([sous-vide](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sous-vide)), to name a few.

Triggers can be set to activate events based on specific dates and times, according to durations of time, or the sunrise/sunset at a specific latitude and longitude.

Mycodo has been translated to several languages. By default, the language of the browser will determine which language is used, but may be overridden in the General Settings, on the `[Gear Icon] -> Configure -> General` page. If you find an issue and would like to correct a translation or would like to add another language, this can be done at [https://translate.kylegabriel.com](https://translate.kylegabriel.com/engage/mycodo/).
